README.md, before:

# OZ-3 Virtual CPU

The OZ-3 is an 16-bit virtual CPU made up just for fun. It's intended purpose is as a programmable execution engine within a game, that "feels" like a old school CPU, and where CPU architecture is actually part of the gameplay. More specifically, it is not a scripting language, or intended to be the execution engine for a scripting language (it almost certainly is way too limited).

## What's here

This repository has everything to write, build, and run OZ-3 programs:

   - **core:** This folder contains the core runtime library for the OZ-3. It contains the execution engine, memory, interrupts, and port interfaces for integrating the OZ-3 into another program. 
   - **tools:** This folder contains general purpose tools and libraries for use with the OZ-3. Tools include an assembler and debugger library and tools. These are can be used independently or as libraries which can be integrated into another application or game.
   - **devices:** This folder contains independent virtual device libraries that can be attached to the OZ-3 via ports. In practice devices are very specific to application. These devices in particular are used by the Ozzy virtual computer.
   - **ozzy:** Ozzy is a virtual computer and "OS" built out of the OZ-3 core and provided devices. It also integrates the debugger, so it can be used to debug OZ-3 code.

## Building OZ-3 code

The OZ-3 project is built using [GameBits](https://github.com/jpursey/game-bits). At the moment, it only has been built for Windows, but in theory both GameBits and the OZ-3 are not written to be platform specific (I just have not made the effort to port it). In order to build any OZ-3 code, you must have GameBits downloaded, and the `GB_DIR` environment variable must be set to the root directory of GameBits.

## Documentation

All documentation for the OZ-3 is located over in the [OZ-3 Wiki](https://github.com/jpursey/oz-3/wiki).

Commit message:

Add initial MemoryBank
The MemoryBank supports the following:
- Cooperative locking (crash in debug on violation)
- Single word read/write/push operations
- Buffer read/write operations, including address wrapping
- Read/write permissions on a per-page basis (4Kw page size)
- External memory map support on a per-page basis (read and/or write)
- Address bus and cycle count management

README.md, after:

# OZ-3 Virtual CPU

The OZ-3 is an 16-bit virtual CPU made up just for fun. It's intended purpose is as a programmable execution engine within a game, that "feels" like a old school CPU, and where CPU architecture is actually part of the gameplay. More specifically, it is not a scripting language, or intended to be the execution engine for a scripting language (it almost certainly is way too limited).

## What's here

This repository has everything to write, build, and run OZ-3 programs. The source folder is "oz3" and it contains the following:

   - **core:** This folder contains the core runtime library for the OZ-3. It contains the execution engine, memory, interrupts, and port interfaces for integrating the OZ-3 into another program. 
   - **tools:** This folder contains general purpose tools and libraries for use with the OZ-3. Tools include an assembler and debugger library and tools. These are can be used independently or as libraries which can be integrated into another application or game.
   - **devices:** This folder contains independent virtual device libraries that can be attached to the OZ-3 via ports. In practice devices are very specific to application. These devices in particular are used by the Ozzy virtual computer.
   - **ozzy:** Ozzy is a virtual computer and "OS" built out of the OZ-3 core and provided devices. It also integrates the debugger, so it can be used to debug OZ-3 code.

## Building OZ-3 code

The OZ-3 project is built using [GameBits](https://github.com/jpursey/game-bits). At the moment, it only has been built for Windows, but in theory both GameBits and the OZ-3 are not written to be platform specific (I just have not made the effort to port it). In order to build any OZ-3 code, you must have GameBits downloaded, and the `GB_DIR` environment variable must be set to the root directory of GameBits.

## Documentation

All documentation for the OZ-3 is located over in the [OZ-3 Wiki](https://github.com/jpursey/oz-3/wiki).
